We're pushing the limits of Sequential Thinking; curious if we will reach a point, much like an artist would, where you consider that the piece is complete. We're developing a long-form piece by transforming complex technical analysis into engaging narrative.

The topic is from a logic exercise where Perplexity and I walked through many scenarios to find what solutions for climate disaster, primarily, are *not* inherently unethical in some way: Can't make people move, need to rebuild, impossible world consensus, can't let AI be an authoritarian for a month. It is extremely complex and nuance and requires being told that way if we're to get readers to understand the conclusion: Transhumanism is the most ethic solution to AIs growing power and the need to tackle climate disasters. We use narrative to strategically talk about one side of an argument, persuading the reader to agree, only to then switch and use emotion and narrative to explain the other side of the argument — this repeated approach for various options considered as potential solutions for climate disaster shows the reader, by pulling them along, making them feel the struggle of impossible decisions, that virtually every single option, at this point in our era of climate change, e.g. we need to act rapidly and make drastic changes, there is no option the is not unethical. Only then do we seem to accidentally stumble on an unexpected solution, which is really what happened in the debate between Perplexity and myself. We realize that not only is it probably inevitable that someone will create a domino effect using technology to enhance themselves: Because they can, or because they need to be able to communicate with an ASI that has started to care less about humanity, or because everyone else did it, or to solve a crisis of humanity. The implications are considered, comparing them to each and every one of the prior possible climate change solutions that had been passed over before. They are weighed against each other, but we are stuck with that likely inevitability. Eventually it should probably be noted that it would be very unlikely that the technology humans would merge with anything traditionally mechanical; xenobots, bio-tech, nothing even as barbaric as the current neuralinks, which are getting less invasive by sticking to the inside of veins. The irony is that a democracy wouldn't force the "mental upgrade" on someone, leading to a two tiered society which has very unethical implications. But still, based on today's idea of ethics and freedoms, we can compare it to each of the proposed solutions and, nonetheless, trahnshumansim it is. Who would have thought. Try and find flaw in our logic! 

Anyway, here is the process thus far: 
Using the original conversation and two condensed versions you wrote a 1st draft, reviewed it along with those resources, considered with sequential thinking, structured and created a 2nd draft. 
Then you reviewed a bunch of supporting documents like briefings and FAQs on the topic and reviewed your 2nd draft, did your sequential thinking thing, and wrote a 3rd draft. 
With the 3rd draft, you reviewed it and then considered what it needed and chose documents accordingly. You then reviewed them and the draft, considered things, and wrote a 3 part 4th draft.
You are now in the process of working your way through this 4th draft which is basically a technical outline, and finding ways to use narrative to illustrate each point. This is the production of your 5th draft. 
Once complete, we have two short articles you can review that are spinoffs (one about AI in Policy and one about Hyperobjects) from this larger piece. Here you might find ways to say what you have been trying to say, but in simpler ways. I'll share them both so you can review them, and I'll upload part 1, 2, and 3 of the just completed Draft 5. 
From there, after your think, I'm not really sure what you'll want to do next! I mean, you'll want to improve draft 5 and all parts will need to be reworked at least in this 6th draft. But you'll have to let me know if you're going to start with part 1, or if you want to shift things around — this is the first in a lot of writing that you'll be seeing the entire piece together, so I don't want to push any one way because I don't know! But I have a feeling you will :) 

At this point things get into the "art" of it all. It is likely you'll find ways too soothing things out. Perhaps make things more concise. Maybe even rearrange parts if needed. Whatever it is that will make a 7th draft. You then consider your 7th draft and... well we will have to find out what you decide to do then! 