POSITION - 19

CONTENT TILE TITLE

CONTENT TILE SUMMARY 

CONTENT TILE IMAGE - 16:9 aspect at 600px wide 

CONTENT TILE PRIMARY TAGS 

SEO META TITLE 

SEO META SUMMARY 

SEO META THUMBNAIL SOCIAL SHARE IMAGE - 1200px x 630px 

PAGE TITLE

PAGE HERO IMAGE - 1200px square 

PAGE SECONDARY TAGS

----


api-automate-video-production




HUGE collection of 30 second videos that were generatively written and organized and then used automations to produce. This was "phase 2" of Astrofluenced overall growth — which we wrote up as "scaling-ai-brand.html" and so we can link to the page https://seanivore.github.io/portfolio/scaling-ai-brand in a way that makes sense. 

At first we experimented with new tech. These were created right after the Adobe Express app was updated into a more powerful tool for creating content on the fly and even using generative tools, though its winning benefit at this point was its surplus of quality stock images and, more importantly, video clips that made storytelling on hip platforms like Instagram. 

We created two series meant to showcase the personality of the various signs when in relatable situations: Falling in Love and "Just Fired" — in retrospect it probably should have been "Just Laid-off" as it would have gotten more action. People share as a way to identify and brand themselves. It is much more common for people to talk about being laid off than it is getting fired, which is rather taboo and not something people outright share, no pun intended. But, these kind of after-thoughts are what make creating viral social media content possible. When you're starting a brand and finding your audience, unless you're going to go super lowest command denominator and you don't have much pre-planned messaging stick to, I.e. you have all the freedom in the world — then you're just going to have other experiment. But the key to experimentation isn't just the analytics, it is actually scheduling the time every other day to review posts. Do a 'step-back' and just write candid thoughts on the post — why it did good and why it did bad. This was where strategists spent a lot of their time back when I was creating viral content on the regular for PETA [link to other page again https://seanivore.github.io/portfolio/pages/viral-campaign-strategy]. 

Zodiac Signs "In Love" Video Shorts 
[GIFs @ 400px wide max — make a slide show if possible]
img-gif-1-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-2-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-3-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-4-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-5-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-6-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-7-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-8-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-9-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-10-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-11-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-12-api-automate-video-production.gif

Zodiac Signs "Just Fired" Video Shorts 
[GIFs @ 400px wide max — make a slide show if possible]
img-gif-13-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-14-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-15-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-16-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-17-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-18-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-19-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-20-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-21-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-22-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-23-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-24-api-automate-video-production.gif

The reason step-backs and experimenting and analytics are so important is because you are very frequently surprised. This next batch is a great example of that. 

These are beyond simple. Something that takes seconds to put together compared to the story-telling images above. Where the above might get a few hundred views, the below got thousands of views every time. 

The reasoning, discovered in doing step-backs, is often obvious — the videos below were mesmerizing and fun to watch. For where the audience we were reaching was, for where out TikTok viewer's heads were at, this is the preferred content. 

It's honestly a great example of marketing today in general: If you want success you have to follow the data. If consulted more than a few growing brands that, these days, you just don't get to always decide what it is your brand is about, if you are looking for success. You follow the numbers. You have a little freedom — once you learn what works you get to build around that. But too often brands — especially large companies — stick to only posting their messaging. Of course there are always going to be priorities to push, but there needs to be a balance of what we'd call "reach" or "engagement" focused posts and then posts with messaging. 

Because you can't argue with something that takes 1/10th as long to make AND reaches 10X the number of people. You need that — lots of that — on your page. Then intermix your messaging where you can. It's the marketing funnel at its core. 

It is also where automation started to become an obvious go-to. Imagine, the video that was taking 1/10th as long to make to reach 10X people, you can now make in 1/100th the speed. That's a lot of crazy, exponential math I can't even wrap my head around. 

Simple, visual Brand Art collage video shorts.
[GIFs @ 400px wide max — make a slide show if possible]
img-gif-25-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-26-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-27-api-automate-video-production.gif

Once we discovered the style that performed the best, we eventually did find ways to work more of our messaging in, all while still using an API service and images with copy already prepared by AI generative automations that filled up the database that fed the API service that edited together our videos in the cloud. Imagine getting videos that reach 10X at 100 times as fast, just sent to your Dropbox via a Webhook. Seriously. Once you have the automations set up, you produce content without ever leaving your database — Notion was our go to. 

Brand Art video shorts for horoscopes like "What to Wear" or "Love Reading" — the visual was crafted for social optimization to get "viral" for our page reach. The video draws the reading into the caption content where they can find a reading as well as access to other more specific readings that they are likely to be interested in based on which video style got them to pause on their news feed. 

[GIFs @ 400px wide max — make a slide show if possible]
img-gif-28-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-29-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-30-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-31-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-32-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-33-api-automate-video-production.gifimg-gif-34-api-automate-video-production.gif

Horoscope video shorts had a reading for all 12 zodiac signs in each video and also came in various themes like What to Wear, Love Readings, Money Readings, Friendship Readings, etc. 

This is where using the Notion databases to automate production becomes really handy. Adding in more intricacy to the messaging is simple when you set it up in a Make automation that pings an LLM via API to write one-line for X zodiac sign, and all you have to do is reference it to the astrology for that week. 

[Slide show — 10 image that are 9:16 aspect and 400px wide] 
img-1-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-2-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-3-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-4-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-5-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-6-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-7-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-8-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-9-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-10-api-automate-video-production.webp

Some videos were readings in themselves, done in an interactive and visually mesmerizing way and using intriguing art. Again, trying to take what we knew was working, and experiment a bit more with it. 

[Slide show — 11 images that are 9:16 aspect and 400px wide] 
img-11-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-12-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-13-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-14-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-15-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-16-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-17-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-18-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-19-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-20-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-21-api-automate-video-production.webp

[Slide show — 12 images that are 600px square] 
img-22-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-23-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-24-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-25-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-26-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-27-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-28-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-29-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-30-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-31-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-32-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-33-api-automate-video-production.webp

Finally, other videos informed based on other metaphysical information that we used to insert our astrofluenced message into; for example here we were drawing in viewers who like crystals. This pulled them to a more comprehensive blog and then our entire comprehensive website of readings and ways to grow and improve your wellbeing. 
[9 images that are 9:16 aspect and all 400px wide] 
img-34-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-35-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-36-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-37-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-38-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-39-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-40-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-41-api-automate-video-production.webpimg-42-api-automate-video-production.webp
